# Ships

Ships have the following attributes

## Name
Every one of these no-good rustbuckets has a name. What's yours? Lola?
## Insignia
Who gives a shit? There are thousands of Lolas floating through the sector.
What makes yours so special?
## Make and Model
Where's the nearest dealership?
## Provenance
She's pretty. Who'd you steal her from?
## Traits
I've made a lot of special modifications myself. (See [ship traits](./traits.md))
## Raw Abilities
#### Integrity
###### *Don't worry, she'll hold together.*
Integrity is the the rating of your ships overall material wellbeing. This covers the durability of your hull plating, the quality of air and water being generated by your recycler, and the thermal and radiation sinks surrounding the habitable zone of your ship, among many many other things. Remember, the only things between you and the screaming void are a couple meters of titanium nano-mesh and goldfoam. Keep her ship shape.

Integrity ranges from 0-7. At zero, the shows over, roll the credits. If you're really lucky you'll die instantly. If you're stupid, you'll float in a vaccsuit until the juice runs out and and you suffocate or you're liquefied by a cloud of micrometeors. I could go on.
#### Security
###### *Seal the blast doors!*
The robustness (and sanity) of your onboard AI, the fitness of your fire-suppression system, and the reliability of your blast doors are all measured by your ships security rating. Integrity keeps you in the ship. Security keeps everything else out.

Security ranges from 0-7. At zero, the AI goes apeshit from the strain of keeping it all up in the air and starts opening airlocks, or flooding the ship with radiation from the engine room, or turning the turrets on you, or flying the whole kit and caboodle into a white dwarf.

#### Entropy
###### *Just as the constant increase of entropy is the basic law of the universe, so it is the basic law of life to be ever more highly structured and to struggle against entropy.* s-Vaclav Havel

It's the far-fucking-future. Humans have figured out superluminal motion, rewritten most of the genome, mapped half the galaxy, and can turn a handful of carbon and sprinkling of scrap into a 10lb bluefin tuna steak. But entropy? Entropy's a bitch, and theres no way around it: shit falls apart.

Every time you use a ship facility (either to make or help on a roll), every time you test one of the ship's abilities, and every time you jump, your System Entropy increases by one. Every time the grind sets in, you must test Security or Integrity (at the discretion of the GM). The obstacle for this test is equal to your total System Entropy. If you fail, the ability rolled is taxed by the margin of failure. If you succeed, System Entropy is decreased by the margin of success.

At any time a crewmember may test Mechanic or Technician in order to reduce System Entropy by 1. The obstacle for this test is the current System Entropy. On failure, System Entropy increases by one.

## Class
Sometimes its just a matter of scale.
## Nature
This baby's got a few surprises left in her.
##### Nature Descriptors: See subtable

## Capabilities
###### *Engine rooms to the left, artillery is below decks, got a little holodeck upstairs and the mess is just to the right. Everything else is life support.*

Each make and model of ship has certain amount of space that you can cram your junk into. And each ships functionality is limited by its Security and Integrity rating. Each system of your ship (ECLS, Fabrication, Artillery, Navigation, Holodeck, etc) has an Integrity Rating and/or a Security Rating. These range from 2-7. In order to properly function each system requires a ship with a current Integrity and Security score grater than or equal to its Integrity and Security Rating. If your ships Integrity or Security score drops below the minimum required by a given System, that system fails immediately. In order to be repaired the ships Integrity and Security scores must be improved to meet or exceed the Systems Rating.
